Synechron:

	1.	Roles and responsibilities?
	2.	How good are you with CI/CD?
	3.	How do you mask the credentials in Jenkins?
	4.	How do you clone repo in Jenkins?
	5.	How to integrate git with Jenkins?
	6.	Explain the complete set up for maven job in Jenkins.
	7.	Difference between CMD and entry points.
	8.	Difference between terminating and stopping instance.
	9.	EBS and volumes.
	10.	How do I know that my instance is running out of storage?
	11.	Explain deployment file in k8s.
	12.	What is replica set?
	13.	What are labels and selectors?
	14.	Default deployment strategy.
	15.	Write a file to create any resource using terraform.
	16.	Explain terraform commands.
	17.	Command to List out the process running and find the disc size

Company: IBM

1. tell about yourself.what are the responsiblities u were handling?
   how many years of experience u have in devops? in aws? in terraform? in python?
2. rate yourself in Git , Aws , python , Terraform?
3. help me in understanding 3-tier architecture and design in 3-tier architecture?
4. explain CIDR with an example.
5. what is cloud brusting? explain with example.
6. what are the different types of file systems i can able to access from my service?(aws)
7. have u mounted s3 bucket to ec2? how ?expain
8. i have ec2 m/c used by endusers lets say my own team is using which has heavy compute load
   what instance profile do u suggest to over come this problem?
9. what are custom images please explain how to create it explain with a scenerio?
10. explain git : head ,tokens,reset,revert,squash, stash, git conflicts explain how to resolve and explain how do you
    make sure to prevent merge conflicts?
11. what are commits in git? do we get every commit id in git? how you obtain last three and first three commits?
12. command to push feature branch to remote repo?
13. explain the following in TF: null resource , splat expression , for_each , count with example.
14. which terraform version u are using ? what are meta arguments in tf.
15. what are data sources and locals in TF?
16. explain the latest issues you have faced in TF in your organistaion and how u resolved that probelm?
17. explain terraform state and state lock in terraform ? explain
18. i already have a state file. lets assume a developer from local m/c creates ec2 infra
    with that i have a state file and i directly changed from cloud console what happens when u do 
    terrafom apply ?
19. what are modules in terraform? why we use it ? explain with usecase.
20. which interpretter u are using for TF open it and write an ec2 with vpc resource and explain the steps.
21. for the above script add modules 
22. what are provisioner and explain differnt types of provisioners?
23. how do you ssh to ec2 instance from TF which is created by using the terraform?

company: Apparel Group/6th Street

1. introduce yourself.and explain your roles in your previous organistation.
2. tell briefly about the tools you have worked on.
3. as u mentioned u are build and release engineer explain briefly about CICD setup in your organistaion.
4. tell me about aws architecture of your current organisation
5. diff b/w docker and docker swarm
6. diff b/w k8's and docker 
7. I have lost the key of my EC2. how to get back the key? is there any other way to launch new instance without taking AMI?
8. what are the fields that will be displayed when i type free command? What is swap memory in linux?
9. which DB u are using?explain RDS
10. How to block the traffic from particular IP?
11. Some EC2 running in private subnet. How do u provide internet access to them?
12. linux process is running i want top 5 and last 3 process how u get it ?
13. you have written shell script. If any of the shell command is failing u should exit from that point itself and should not execute the script. What will u do?
14. write a shell script in your notepad of your wish and explain the steps.
15. how you check the load of the system ?
16. if you want to block abc.com with specific ip address how will u do it?
17. explain vpc and vpc peering?
18. what are the jenkins plugin have you used
19. Which artifactory are you using ?
20. explain jenkins backup process?
21. what are all the env you have created in your organistaion?

Company:LTI duration:35min

1.tell about yourself.
2.explain the current role and day to day activities you are doing.
3.scenerio based questions about image pull back error . crash loopback error and how you resolve?
4.scenerio based question on k8's services 
5.scenerio based question on pv pvc of k8's
6.cicd pipeline how many stages are there in your organistaion. explain 
7.what is jenkins file? default location of jenkins file.? where you store your jenkins file?
8.what is CI,continious delivery and continious deployment ? explain 
9.docker concepts

company: persistent systems
duration: 40min

1.tell about yourself. roles and responsibility in your organistaion.
2.how many years of experience in k8's terraform.
3.explain data resource ?
4.what is count for_loop ?
5.explain remote exec?
6.exlain file provisioner?
7.have u used dynamic block? explain with a used case.
8.what is modules in terraform?
9.explain terraform statefile ? where u store terraform.tfstate?
10.k8's services? scenerio based on node port.
11.k8's RBAC 
12.shell scripting . explain some of the shellscripts u have written for your day to day activities?
13.you know python?
14. i have this ./script_1.sh a1 a2 . how do you pass this parameter ?
15.linux commands -- netstat commands , awk , files and direcories modified before 30days,crontab

Company: Calsoft 
Duration: 1hr
k8's-- Roshini
Terraform -- sirishah

1.explain your role and responsiblities in your organistaion?
2.explain k8's architecture?
3.explain deamonset , replicaset,deployment,pod,statefulset?
4.do you know python?
5.i have 5 init container, 1 init container fails, can u skip and run main app container? if yes how?
6.what is service in k8's explain the services you have worked on?
7.explain the scenerio where u have used endpoint controller?
8.i have 100gi PV how to claim explain? suppouse if i want to add 50gi to PV can i add? how?
9.what are k8's Namespace? can u do communication from namespace A to namespace B ? how ?
10.explain ingress. explain why ingress is important in k8's? how traffic flow into ingress?
11.how many years of experience in terraform?
12.where u are storing the secrets in terraform?
13.how you trigger lamda from terraform?
14.what are the resources u have created by using terraform?
15.do u know terraform meta-data? explain provider , count, for_each, lifecycle?
16.i have a directory (dev) in that i have 5 YAML files i need to run those yaml files how u achive it ? 
17.what type of groovy script u know ? what are parameters in jenkins?
18.explain terraform state lock? how u achive that ?
19.you said pod is the basic and smallest deployable object? why cant the containers?

Hughes systique pvt ltd

1.introduce yourself 
2.roles and responsibilities
3.complete ci cd pipeline
How u integrated git
4.what type of pipeline you are using
5.write a shell script if var a = some string redirect each word to a file and print it.
6.write a a simple deployment file.
7.types of container and explain it .
8.k8s service

Company name: synechron
1.introduce yourself and roles and responsibilities
2.k8s architecture
3.ingress
4.ingress controller/ingress resources
5.Some scenario based questions on ingress.
6.how u created path based and host based routing.
7.how request will come to cluster.
8.Route53/ records
9. How the communication is established from pod to pod.
10.how to login to a pod.
11.how to increase and decrease the replicas manually using command
12.have u worked on any monitoring tools.
13 when  a jenkins job is triggered it has to deployed in test an qa env how will u do it.
14.how you integrated the sonarqube
15. What type of plugins you are used
16.qualitygates/metrics
17.canary and Blue green deployment difference

Persistent system
Duration:- 1 hour
1) Tell about your self and what are the tool have you worked on it ? Explain the tool required to your current project
2) What are the phases of devops
3) Write a groovy script for CI pipeline job with Code analysis using Sonarqube ? Explain step by step
4) How to step up downstream and upstream job in your pipeline job
5) where you will store credentials in Jenkins explain it how will that credentials will access the application
6) Scenario base questions
     If my application is    running and i got some problem i want to roll back to the old version how you will buil this job without a downtime
7) What is user data script
8) Explain could front? 
9) How many years of experience in terraform and k8s
10) what is docker file
11) explain the required instruction to create docker file
12) How do the port mapping in docker
13) Explain service in k8s 
14) what is probe ? Explain different types of Probe
15) What deployment strategy your using in your organization
16 ) explain different types of deployment strategy
17) how to configure the blue green deployment
18) which branching strategy your following in your company? Explain it 
19) Have you managed team in your company
20) how you will resolve problems in the team ? if your lead
21) do you follow agile methodologies
22) having the experience in jira tool

company: Nagarro

1.tell about yourself.
2.what roles u were doing in your current project?
3.what are the k8's resources you are used?
4.explain services you are used in k8's?
5.there are three containers running in a pod . if one container fails the pod should terminate. how you do it ?
6.explain a/b deploying strategey.
7.node affinity , anti affinity.
8.terraform refresh vs terraform import?
9.terraform grunt
10.terraform statefile? how u maintaining?
11.if i delete statefile in remote backend s3 what will happen ? when i run apply command will it say no changes or it will create one more resource?
12.share screen and write resource block for s3?
13.ci tool using? how u deploying to k8's?
14.scripts you know? explain any script u have automated recently?
15.what exactly you doing with ansible?explain

Company: Persistent Systems.

1.explain the roles u have in your organistaion? explain briefly about your current project.
2.what all are the tools u are familar?
3.container port is 80 i want to expose it to 8080 how u do it?
4.services u have worked on ?
5.how u maintaing secrets in k8's ? how about configMaps?
6.share screen write deployment , service yaml files.
7.aws services u have worked on. explain route 53 ? what is A type record set ? have u configured? how ?why?
8.explain the configuration of Network Loadbalancer?
9.what is VPC?what is VPN? can i create ec2 instance without selecting VPC? 
10.what are subnets? how u accesss private subnet?
11.shared libraries jenkins?
12.explain the CD setup u have done? how u deploying into k8's?
13.what are the resources u have created by using terraform?
14.In notepad write the terraform main.tf for ec2.what are modules? write modules block and show?
15.have you used count , for_each? explain
16. explain state file? what happens if u store your statefile in local? what is state locking then explain?
17.How does a day look like for Releasing to Production
18.If an Application is reported unresponsive, what are your initial checks 
19.are u using helm ? what does chart.yml contains ?
20. do you know python?

Company name:- Nlb tech
1) tell about your self  and what are the project your handling
2) What is pull request? Why you will use it
3) if my application getting 404 error ? what are the step will you take 
4) how to you add the SSL certificate to Cluster
5) What are type of parameters in Jenkins
6) what is cgroup in docker
7) how to expose the multiple container to external world
8) why you need ingress and ingress resources
9) what is affinity and anti- affinity 
10) Why are attaching the Role to resources 
11) if you lost the credential to log in to Jenkin how you will retrieve it
12) how you will roll back to the previous build in the Jenkins

Company : Talentica 

1.explain the roles and responsibilities in your current project?
2.do you know python?
3.what are all the bash scripts u have written?
4.explain the CICD 
5.scenerio based question on AWS route53,S3-Buckets.
6.how you configure autoscaling?
7.explain the serverless platform u have used in your project.
8.have you used cognito? what is user pool? how u configure?
9.jenkins parameters?
10.docker bridge network?
11.scenerio based docker questions about volume 
12.k8's installation process?
13.k8's ingress scenerio based question?
14.service , deamonset,stateful set of k8's and differnce b/w stateful and deamon.
15.tearrform statefile lock
16.do u have experience in managing the team?

Company : AIRBUS

1.Explain your Role as Release Engineer.What does a typical day look like?
2.explain CICD of your organisation setup?
3.(in code share) write the pipe line from git checkout , image build , sonar scnner,push to regestiry ,k8's deploy (15min time)
4.is your application live ?
5.deployment strategy? you are using blue-green or canary?
6.write script to kill the process called dockerD
7.How Many Environments are involved and can you explain how code is pushed from Dev to Production
8.How do you organize your source codes in Version Control 
  When do you branch out.
9.If there is a issue in production and there are already some features developed which are due for testing, how do you organize source code to have this issues get fixed first 
10.What are the health checks you do daily
11.Explain - AWS , its services and how best you have leveraged each of them
12.How did you support Auto Scaling
13.have u used cucumber , postman, JIRA?
14.What was the need for IaC? 
15.write terraform script for s3. write remote exec block ?
16.explain k8's RBAC ,HPA,
17.explain ingress ? which ingress controller you are using?
18. you said you are deploying with HELM. what are the advantages?

Company : NBL Tech

1.tell about your self.roles and responsibilities
2.diff b/w git and git hub
3.types of parameters u have used. explain
4.how to specify the IP for a container while creating.
5.can we specify the multiple domain in ingress?
6.RBAC ? how to give permission for the developer to access the EKS cluster.
7.i lost jenkins password . i dont have vault to store . how u login ?
8.post and re-build in jenkins 
9.if u create user in linux and passwd is created for the user where the password will be stored in linux?
10.poll scm and build periodically
11.version of docker and k8's you are using?
12.if my application showing 500 error what is that means ? how u resolve?
13. what is 401 error 404, 405 error?
14.recent issue u have faced and how u resolved that ?
15.what feedback u have given for CD in your organisation?

1. Explain a standard 3 tier architecure in Aws
2. How to connected to instances in private subnet.
3. Why we create NAT gateway in public subnet.
4. He gave cidr block and asked how many ips are available.?
5. He gave 4 actions and asked name of aws services who help me achieve those actions
6. What is the drawback of s3 glacier?
7. Whats the diff bw Data warehouse and Database.
8. How to give cross account s3 bucket access?
9. What is Aws sts?
10. How to configure Cloud watch to automatically recover EC2 instance?
11. Write a TF script using single resource block and create 3 S3 bucket.
12. Write a dockerfile using ubuntu image,  install nginx, expose port 80 and print a message.j
13. What is scheduler in K8s
14. How to create K8s context?
15. What ia use of trap function in shell.
16. You have an input string...reverse the letters of each word in the string in shell script

Altruistindia
1) introduction your self and explain which tool you have worked on
2) Explain your CI/CD
3) what is continuous integration ? Why we need it
4) have written a groovy script from scratch
5) do you now python
6) have you having the access to AWS as Admin
7) Which deployment strategy is used in your company
8) can you select the 3 commit to trigger the ci/cd ? How you will mention it
9) How kubernetes cluster is managed
10) how is decided to deploy the pod on the worker node
11) what is pod
12) How you will deploy new updates to the application without downtime
13) have migrated the monolithic application to micro service application? Explain it
14) which bash script you have written
15) have you written any cron job? Where are written it
16) where are setup mail existence in Jenkins
17) which every automation tool have you used in your project

Company:- persistent system ( L2)
Duration:- 50 minutes
1) tell about your self and project your current working on it ? Explain it
2) What major difference between role and Policy
3) one application is running on the Ec2 install and S3 bucket should be communicate to the instance ? How explain it detailed
4) How you will attach the role to ec2 instance
5) see i having 10 server in that only 8 server can access by IAM user remaining 2 server should be accessed ? how you will do it
6) have you worked on cloud formation
7) How any language do you now
8) Write deployment object in k8s
9) In k8s ingress object which of the components will there
10) how you will call SSL for your application
11) how you will upgrade the Jenkins from x.x version to y.y version
12) how you will Store the credential of AWS in Jenkins and how you will call it ? Explain it
13) Which type of architecture you are using in your organization in Jenkins? Explain it
14) Explain k8s architecture? How many servers was there in worker node
15) What is docker multi stage build? Why you will use it
16) write docker file
17) explain helm chart folder
18) why helm is used in K8s
19) do you having the experience in ECS
20) what is pv and pvc in k8s

company name - siemens
1)Introduce your self?
2)explain me how you build a infrastructure in your company?
3)break up strategy to taking backup of EBS and RDS backup? 
4)how to move one EBS volume from one account to another account?
5)what is back up do you prefere to take complete EC2?
6)how do you automate to create new VM using AMI?
7)any idea on Linux ulimiter?
8)what is umask?
9)can VPC peering possible for 2 diffrent regions?
10)explain merg conflict?
11)what is branching in git?
12)what is git fork?
13)what is git clone?
14)what is roles in ansible?
15)what is the jinja tool template?
16)what are the monitoring tools you are working?
17)explain docker volumes and bind mounts?
18)how to create docker bridge network?
19)what is namespace and Cgroups? 
20)how to establish connection between two servers without password?
21)if you are unable to reach to web server what are all things you will check?
22)if you are migrated old domain to new domain how do you make the request to redirect it to new domain?
23) where do you import SSL certificate?

Company: Talentica
Director round : Aniketh -- vice-president at Talentica--Pune.

1.Asked about the roles and responsiblities from past one year.
2.Education qualification. when you joined the current organistaion.
3.Explain the first project . what all you have done as a team member.
4.Team size . over all project team size.
5.What is your technical intrests?
6.Tupple in python? which Python version you are learning?
7.Command to check the history of deployments including the revision in k8's?
8.do u know about reverse-proxy and proxy? do u know how to setup proxy servers? have u done that ?
9.what rating postion you give yourself as a team member?
10.CICD means what u know why you want this setup? do you think its more important in DevOps?
11.Why are you leaving your present position?
12.What do you know about talentica?
13.What areas do you think you still need to develop?
14.how you optimize the aws billing? any specific actions you taken ?
15.how you check file size , disk size ,to list all tcp listening ports?
16.any achivements you have done that made you so proud.

Rakuten 
1) brief about yourself and your roles and responsibilities 
2) how you check the load of the application 
3) how you increase the volume
4) what is 504 error 
5) suppose if you have single instance and how you make sure that it is highly available 
6) what is etcd and how you communicate 
7) what are compnets in worker node
8) explain kubelet and kubeproxy
9) what is static pod
10) why you use anisble
11) what are handlers, suppose I have 4 task how many times the handles will trigger 
12) what is liveness probe and readiness probe
13) what is multi branch pipeline 
14) suppose I want to run particular application in particular worker node how you achieve in pipeline 
15) what is CMD and ENTRYPOINT
16) suppose if I want to have Ubuntu image what you will mention in docker file
17) suppose my application is in another server and how you will configure in order build that application in jenkins automatically 
18) how you will install a package using anisble
19) how you get CPU utilization 20) command to get the disk size
21) different network types in docker
22) what are init containers and why you use them
23) what are challenges you faced in k8s and how you resolved

Company: Nagarro

1. tell about yourself.
2. explain cicd
3. scenerio based auto-scaling question
4. application load balancer setup
5. configuration management tool?
6. how u call playbook A from Playbook B
7. persistent vol , pvc , dynamic pv
8. k8's secrets , encryption . how to change the default encryption in k8's
9. terraform provisioners 
10 jenkins parallel block 
11. shell scripting

Company : AIRBUS

1. what are the roles and responsiblities u have wrt to your project?
2. git merge conflict how you resolve
3. explian CICD of your organistaion
4. i have 12 python project i need to do cicd how you will do it ?
5. explain master slave concept
6. share screen in notepad write pipeline with env variables( write one stage)
7. ansible version. dynamic inventory. why you using ansible in your organistaion? do you know about ansible tower?
8. do you know how to install ansible based on package manager?
9. ELB v/s ALB explain
10. terraform version? what exactly you are doing in terraform?
11. terraform provisioners? null resource ? data resource? 
12. shell script scenerio based question : to find the files in a directory path ./airbus
    which are not modified for 10days and archive it. 
13. command to run the above script in remote server.
14. what does this command do (grep MemTotal /proc/meminfo)

company: Mphasis

1. introduce yourself.
2. git reset , rebase.
3. how do you merge a branch3 with branch7
4. cicd . groovy script. can you run all the stages parallely?
5. why you need docker multi build dockerfile? explain concept you have written?
6. CMD ,ENTRYPOINT , COPY , ADD
7. k8's architecture.
8. share screen-- notepad -- scenrio - Needs to create a pod with name nginx-deployment , Replicas 3 and create a container inside the pod of 
( image: nginx:1.14.2 and image name -nginx )open port 80, and protocol is TCP
9. command to run the above file? command to list the pods on particular node.
10. what is API? what is the api version u are using for ingress?
11. linux explain mv , to copy directory, to check free space avaliable , create directory dir3 inside dir2
12. how do you restart a particular service 
13. terraform init. what it does in background?
14. Write a terraform code to create a state file in backend and also create a 
    VPC with name "my_vpc" and place 2 EC2 instance in it
15. which protocol ping uses? what is port 23? what it says -- 1)$? , 2)$$

ompany : Puresoftware
duration: 15 min 
round : screening round.

1. which tool you are using for cicd?  List some features of Jenkins.
2. Do you know any other continuous integration tools? How is Jenkins better than any of those?
3. What are the system requirements to install Jenkins?
4. some of the important plugins u have installed?
5. if you want to set up a cron for every tuesday at 09.59 pm ?
6. are you intrested in working with operations team or Devops team?